Another component of disaster recovery
and working with operationalization of containers is
this concept of understanding how to take a backup of your cluster
and restore it in a situation where it is actually lost.
So let's take a situation that is really a common situation where, let's say,
you have a production database that's a NoSQL database,
and it actually is the primary data store for your customers.
It is actually something that does happen where
you maybe have upgraded the version of your database,
and it turns out that the upgraded version will delete the data.
That's actually happened to me in the real world,
and then hopefully what happens is you go back to
your backups and you actually are able to restore.
But if you haven't checked your backups,
it could be that you thought you're backing up the data,
and it turns out that you are just backing up the same file over and over again,
and that's also happened to me.
So really important to think about in terms of disaster recovery
is have you double and triple and quadruple checked exactly what you're doing?
Have you thought about the concept of what happens when you lose your primary data store?
So that's really the concept of disaster recovery in a nutshell.
Another thing to think about is in a confines of containers themselves,
are you able to actually actively move the data
quickly so that you can get production up and running again?
It's one thing to, let's say,
take six months and completely restore all your customer data.
But what if, because it takes six months, you've got a business?
It doesn't even matter that you've been able to perfectly restore what's happening.
So you also have to have the idea of hot swappable or online systems,
and really Kubernetes and clusters themselves that
run containers are really readily designed for that kind of workflow.
Another one is to think about replicating
your production environment in a development environment and also a testing environment.
So one thing that could come up is,
if you don't have a complete replica of
your production environment and the development environment,
you could be developing a feature,
think it works really well,
and then because your production environment is a little bit different,
you deploy it and completely take out
your production environment and then you're down for,
let's say, days or maybe even a week.
These are really important things to think about,
important considerations of disaster recovery that maybe don't
initially come to mind when you're initially working with clusters,
but it actually is a huge capability that clusters themselves,
that run containers have,
that previously didn't really exist is you have this ability to
do continuous delivery and continuous deployment of your software.
What that means is that you can have n number of
environments and you can constantly be testing exactly what you're doing.
So this is a really important topic that
doesn't come up that often until it really bites you.
If you're not thinking about disaster recovery,
eventually, you're going to get burned.
It could be a really bad situation that could even put your company out of business.
So one solution that is in the space is Velero.
It's something that you can look at on GitHub,
and it has a lot of the capabilities that we've just talked about.
It has a server that runs on your cluster,
and it can actually go through and configure testing and
configure backups and enhance some of the disaster recovery capabilities.